[Music]
hi I'm Father Mark Mary with Franciscan
friers with renewal and this is the
Rosary in year podcast where through
prayer and meditation the rosary brings
us deeper into relationship with Jesus
and Mary and becomes a source of Grace
for the whole world the Rosary in the
year is brought to you by Ascension this
is day two to download the prayer plan
for Rosary in year visit
ascensionpress.com
Rosary in a year or text Ry to 337 777
you'll get an outline of how we're going
to pre month it's a great way to track
your progress the best place to listen
the podcast in the Ascension app there
special features built just for this
podcast and also recordings of the full
Rosary with myself and other
Friars today and for the following three
days we're going to be practicing
encountering another in prayer this
aspect of prayer fits under the larger
umbrella of what is classically referred
to as practicing the presence of God or
to use the language of the catechism
raising our minds and our hearts to God
these first two days we'll practice
encountering Jesus in prayer and then
the following two days we'll look at
what praying with our lady looks like
and to help enrich and guide our prayer
today and tomorrow we'll be turning to
the Litany of the Sacred Heart my
friends to be honest I've never really
been a litany guy but I'm
quickly really quickly and really
recently becoming a litany guy the
reason I've historically struggled with
this form of prayer is that there's
this recitation of all these titles of
Our Lord or our lady Etc and to be
honest like I just don't really know
what most of them mean so it really does
feel like this repetition of these empty
phrases I just don't really know what
what any of it means so it's hard for me
to Value it but quite recently in
particularly in preparing these next
four episodes I've been able to do a
deep dive into what these various titles
mean and to be honest like I've really
had like a total 180 a change of heart I
think I've struggled because a lot of
these titles are a bit poetic so like
what they mean isn't immediately evident
to me at least but as I've done some
studying and some reflecting on them and
I've come to understand them I've come
to encounter them experience them as
profoundly rich and beautiful and to
back up for a second like a litany if
you're not familiar with it a litany
it's a type of vocal prayer and it each
of the lit is going to have a particular
emphasis like the Sacred Heart of Jesus
the litany then has a series of
invocations that mention other titles of
the mystery being prayed with and about
the characteristics of whatever the
subject is for example with the Litany
of the Sacred Heart Heart of Jesus
infinite in Majesty Heart of Jesus Holy
Temple of God Heart of Jesus
Tabernacle of the most
high well today's episode isn't focused
on praying the Litany of the Sacred
Heart that's not what we're specifically
doing today the Litany of the Sacred
Heart it is a profound source of
inspiration and direction for praying
with the person of Jesus as it offers us
a series of beautiful reminders of who
Jesus is today we're going to be using
one of the invocations for our prayer
but if you'd like to continue to
practice encountering Jesus like who he
is in prayer this litany is going to be
a really helpful compliment to your
ongoing prayer with scripture
particularly the gospels and your time
of prayer and Adoration of the Blessed
Sacrament the invocation for our prayer
this moment is Heart of Jesus king and
center of All
Hearts Jesus is the king he is the king
who sits upon the throne and I'll invite
you for a moment in your imagination to
create your own throne room where Christ
the King is
Seated on the
throne now scripture tells us that he is
surrounded by a host of angels he's
clothed in majesty and he holds the
whole world in his hand Jesus the king
is Almighty he is the lawgiver the ruler
and the Victorious
one and yet this
King he knows your
name to step outside of this throne room
for a moment I'm going to share a bit of
an embarrassing story real quick I've
been doing videos next to father Mike on
ascension presents for nearly six years
now and every week we've been showing up
next to each other on YouTube but the
whole time right he's been in Minnesota
and I've been in New York and until
somewhat recently we didn't really
connect directly like we both had our
team at Ascension that we worked with
but didn't have a reason to work
directly with one another and after
having done Asen presents for nearly
three years again having a video next to
his every week for those three years as
we a particular event like a question
and answer Live question and answer for
presents and to help promote it I heard
father Mike on one of his videos
mentioned something along the lines of
okay and next week tune in because
Father Mark Mary is going to be coming
on for a live
Q&A I'm kind of embarrassed to say but
uh you know what the fact that he knew
my name it meant a lot to me and maybe
it meant more to me than it should have
but I was like oh Father Mike he knows
who I am like he knows my name okay
that's pretty cool and you know like
father Mike is awesome and some could
say he is the the Catholic media king
but my friends he is not the king like
the literal King of the
universe and so even more important than
father Mike knowing my name although
that's cool is that Jesus the Eternal
King he knows my my name and he's always
known my name he knit me together in my
mother's womb he knows the numbers of
hairs on my
head the king Christ the King he knows
me and the King he knows
you now let's go back to this throne
room that we've created in our
imaginations this place of prayer for a
moment as the invocation from the Litany
of the Sacred Heart says Jesus the king
is also the center of our hearts but how
often is this actually a
reality we've been granted an audience
with the King we are there in the palace
we are there in the throne room in fact
the King was basically begging for us to
come he's done everything to get us to
come visit him and we're there we're in
the room we're in his
presence and he can't take his eyes off
of us but our eyes never meet his
maybe we're looking in the figurative
mirror and picking apart our personality
or emotional
lives potentially we could be distracted
with our phones the success or faults of
others like everything going on in the
world etc etc and what comes to mind is
the scripture
verse Martha Martha you are worried and
anxious about so many things one thing
is
necessary Mary has
chosen the better part
heart so my friends as we've gone about
this world and sometimes even our prayer
like so fixated and focused on so many
things that are not him causing us to
experience anxiety and worry about so
many
things let us now at this
moment choose the better
part and so in prayer here like I want
you to go to imagine yourself
approaching the king as he sits on his
throne
this king of love as he looks upon
you and approach him draw close to
him you can sit or kneel before
him now look Jesus in the
eyes behold your
king in this moment make him the center
and the focus of your
attention raise your mind to
him and
recognize that he recognizes
you he sees
you he knows
you now hear him say your
name and pay attention to the movement
in your
heart and respond to
him share with him your love your needs
your
desires the
King
Jesus he knows
you and he loves to hear your voice
look at
him speak to
him and we'll close today's episode the
way that we're going to close all of the
episodes of phase one praying and our
father three Hill mares and a glory
be and I really want the focus of your
prayer to be continuing to look at him
while we are saying these prayers
continue to keep him before
you keep him at the center of your
hearts your attention your very very
Life as we pray in this moment
remember the king sees
you the king knows you
the king loves to hear your
voice and the king of the universe knows
your
name let us pray in the name of the
father and of the son and of the holy
spirit
amen Our Father who art in heaven
Hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come
thy will be done on Earth as it is in
heaven give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
Deliver Us from Evil
amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus holy Mary Mother of God pray for
us sinners now and at the hour of our
death
amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus holy Mary Mother of God pray for
us sinners now and at the hour of our
death
amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus
holy Mary Mother of God pray for us
sinners now and at the hour of our death
amen glory be to the father and to the
son and to the Holy Spirit as it was in
the beginning is now and ever shall be
World Without End Amen in the name of
the father and of the son and of the
holy
spirit
amen all right well thank you for
joining me in praying with me today I
look forward to continuing this journey
with you again tomorrow all right poco
poco friends God bless y'all